In the last two lectures we learned the basics of defining routes using the route.
Class methods.
And also we learn the basics of rendering the views using the larval blade templating engine.
But we only created individual pages like this home page or the contact page and also the blog post
page.
But there's no way to click through the links and go to this page.
So now let's create a simple menu inside our layout and will use an unordered at least for that.
So let's are the U L tag about the yield content and create two links.
So the first one would be to the home page and the second one to the contact page.
So those two URLs are slash contact
okay.
Now let's refresh this page.
And of course this doesn't look great.
Now we will get to that later.
Let's see if that works so this menu is being rendered as part of the layout.
So it would be always visible.
And now we can easily navigate even if you will go to our blog post.
You can see the same menu
now you see here that we've defined those euros explicitly so they will always lead to the links that
we've given inside the craft attribute.
And let's now think what would happen if we will change the euro.
For example for the contact page to contact to.
So now if we would try to go to the contact page we get the funds.
Hope 404 not found because we are trying to go to contact and the viewer has changed.
So there has to be a better way to manage this and the race we will use then named routes.
So the two other name to our route you have to add another method call after you defined the route.
But first let's open the terminal and run peach partisan route least so you see there is this column
name.
So now let's add the names to our routes.
So the first one would be home.
Of course the contact would be contact.
And the third one would be the blog post.
Now if you rerun the P2P artisan route least you would see that those routes now contain the names so
we can use that names to generate the actual you were out to our to the actual page instead of hard
coding it inside templates or inside controllers.
So let's go to our layout remove the direct you URL and we will render it by using double currently
braces and to using the helper function root the route accepts a parameter which is the route name and
since we've given our routes names let's open terminal again you can see that there is the home route
and the contact route.
So let's also remove this direct you Earl route.
Contact.
Now let's refresh this page.
And if you will go to the home home page nothing changes because we haven't changed that.
But if you will go to contact you can see that now it works.
And it leads to the level that test slash contact tool because we've changed the URL inside our route
definition file to contact to so if you will go again and reverted back to be just contact it should
be automatically reflected if you click home and contact again you can see that the correct route was
given.
Now if you would like to add a link to your URL that has a parameter and in our case that's a blog post
we can use the same root helper.
And we have this route with the blog post name.
So let's use it.
The blog post and to pass a parameter we'll use an array the same as we did inside our route definitions.
So it accepts two parameters the I.D. and an optional welcome parameter so let's pass the I.D. barometer
to be one
and let's close it and maybe we can call the link block post 1.
Now we see this additional link and it is being correctly rendered as blog post slash 1 because we generate
the route automatically in case we'll also like to modify the actual route like blog post to
now when we refresh this page you can also see that now it leads to blog post to so let's fix that to
be the correct one.
And that would tweet about the basics of rooting and views and now follow to the next lecture when you
will learn the concept of controllers.